Java Foundation Level

DATA TYPE: 
1-Primitive data types: The primitive data types include Boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double.
2-Non-primitive data types: The non-primitive data types include Classes, Interfaces,
and Arrays
Variable in Java:
Data types specify the different sizes and values that can be stored in the variable. There are
two types of data types in Java:

1-Primitive data types: 

Boolean
char
byte
short
int
long
float
double.

2-Non-primitive data types: 

Classes
Interfaces
Arrays
 
A Variable is the name of memory Location that can store data. There are three Types of Variables
1-Local Variable:

Declaration:-Inside the method ,Constructor or Block
Scope:-Inside the method ,Constructor or block not outside
When Variable gets Allocated:-when method Constructor or block get executed Variable allocates memory, when get exist Variable Destroyed.
Stored Memory:-Stack memory
Default Values:-Does not have any default values. Values should be provided before use. Access Modifiers:-can not be used with Local Variables.

2-Instance Variable:

Declaration:- Inside the class but outside the method ,constructor or block.
Scope:- Inside all the method Constructor or block within a class (but not inside the static method directly)
When Variable gets Allocated:- when object is created Variable allocated when object gets deleted variable releases memory.
Stored Memory:- Heap memory
Default Values:- They have default value-int=0,Boolean=false, object=null.
Access Modifiers:- Can be used.
How to access:-if method is Simple=> it can be called directly. If method is static=> then first object is created and then call

3-Static Variable:

Declaration:- with static keyword in a class but outside method ,constructor or block. Scope:- Inside all the method Constructor or block within a class(same as instance variable) When Variable gets Allocated:-when be run a Program and .class file is loaded. Variable allocated and when .class file is unloaded then variable is deleted
Stored Memory:-Non Heap memory or static memory

Default Values:

They have default value-int=0,Boolean=false, object=null.

Access Modifiers:

Can be used.
How to access:
Directly, by using class name, by using object reference name

Operators in java
 
Operators are the Special Symbol which perform any operation on one or more operands. There are many types of operators in Java which are given below:

1. Unary Operator
2. Arithmetic Operator
3. Shift Operator
4. Relational Operator
5. Bitwise Operator
6. Logical Operator
7. Ternary Operator
8. Assignment Operator

Literal:
The Value assigned to a variable is known as literal.
Keywords:
Keywords are the predefined words having any specific meaning. Control statement:
A Java Program Normally Executes top to bottom. But if we want to control the order of Program Execution based on logic and values. we use the control Statement.
There are three types: -
1-Selection Statement or Conditional Statement:
Example:- if , if else , if else if , Nested if, Switch

2-Looping Statement or Iteration Statement:
Example:- for , while ,do while

3-Jump Statement:
Example:- Break, Continue, return
